# `iranhpi`: Bailey-Muth-Nourse and Case-Shiller House Price Indices for Iran in Stata
#### Developed by Peyman Shahidi
#### Last update: Oct 08, 2020


*******************************************************************************
## Description
The `iranhpi` command calculates the Bailey-Muth-Nourse (1963) and Case-Shiller (1987) house price indices. This command has been developed to be compatible with the publicly available data published by the Ministry of Roads and Urban Development (MRUD). MRUD’s data is available only up to June 2020 (Tir 1399).


*******************************************************************************
## Test Materials
To test the `iranhpi` command follow these steps:
1. Move `iranhpi.ado` to your personal adopath directory (or adjust the `main.do` script to specify your personal settings).
2. Run the `test_iranhpi.do` script. 

The code in `test_iranhpi.do` allows for testing different options of the command. 

Note: The `createSample.do` script creates a random sample for Tehran from MRUD's public transactions dataset. The data file `iranhpi_test.dta` is the output generated by `createSample.do`. You may run `test_iranhpi.do` directly without generating the random sample yourself.


*******************************************************************************
## References:
1. Bailey, M. J., Muth, R. F., & Nourse, H. O. (1963). A Regression Method for Real Estate Price Index Construction. *Journal of the American Statistical Association*, 58(304), 933-942.
2. Case, K.E., Shiller, R.J. (1987). Prices of Single-family Homes Since 1970: New Indexes for Four Cities. *New England Economic Review*. Sept./Oct. 45-56.


*******************************************************************************
## Citation
If you use `iranhpi` in your work, please cite it as below:
```
Shahidi, Peyman, 2020, "Bailey-Muth-Nourse and Case-Shiller House Price Indices for Iran in Stata," GitHub repository, https://github.com/peymanshahidi/iranhpi.
```
The citation information can be found in the `CITATION.bib` file.


*******************************************************************************
## Acknowledgements
Special thanks to Hosein Joshaghani for guiding me in developing this command.


*******************************************************************************
## Contact
For questions, comments, or feedback please contact shahidi.peyman96@gmail.com.